This is the document to guide the visitors how to use this platform
- DOES TIME ZONE SELECTION MATTER?
	User and Organization Time Zone Settings
You may have noticed a dropdown in your user profile for “Timezone.” What does it do? Why does it matter? Let’s talk about it briefly.
In meetings that are in progress, there’s a meeting timer that counts down from the total time set in meeting settings. Once the timer gets to zero, it turns red and starts counting up to show exactly how much time the meeting has run-over. When you send the meeting recap email, it includes the date, time, and runtime of the meeting.
What if you have multiple people in the same meeting? That’s where that timezone option comes in. It’ll adjust day/time in emails and notifications as well as help sync the meeting timer between browsers with large physical distances between them.
That’s all simple enough, but what if you have multiple people in the same meeting? What if the meeting recap and meeting activity notes include dates AND time, but one of you is in the U.S. and the other is in U.K.? That’s where that time zone option comes in.
Select your timezone in your profile and that’ll override the default timezone set in the organization’s global settings. When you get an email about your Etho meeting, it’ll automatically adjust the time of that meeting according to your timezone.
It also helps sync the clock between browsers of different people in different locations getting around the issue of a thing called “latency,” but let’s not get too technical.
If you don’t select anything, it’ll use the organization’s default timezone. If the organization’s default timezone isn’t selected, it’ll default to Central U.S. timezone–for no particular reason except it needed a default of a default and we chose the timezone of our offices.
- HOW TO SELECT A BUNCH OF THINGS AT ONCE
	CTRL + Click is your friend
In Etho™, many of the dropdowns have lots of choices and each include a search feature to help you jump to the one you’re looking for. But, how do you select several options at once really quickly? The answer is CTRL + Click. Or, if you’re on a Mac, it’s COMMAND + Click.
Let’s say you’re creating a new objective for 5 different individuals. You could select the scope of “Individual” and search & select them one at a time. Or, you may find it faster to hold down the CTRL key on your keyboard and selecting several at once.
NOTE: This trick only works on multi-select dropdowns.
- WHAT’S A “BEHAVIORAL PROFILE?”
	The Predictive Index Behavioral Assessment
If Predictive Index (or “PI”) is selected in your Global Company Setup as your organizations behavioral profiler, a field appears on every user’s profile allowing you to select their Behavioral Profile generated by the PI Assessment.
Once selected, both the user and the manager have access to the Behavioral Guides and Managerial Guides provided by PI. These are downloadable (as PDFs) from both the employee’s profile as well as on the second page of their Review.
Haven’t taken the PI Behavioral Assessment? Contact your Etho™ account representative and ask for one. You can also learn more at predictiveindex.com
- HOW TO FIX A MISSING CSRF_TOKEN 419 ERROR
	Here’s how to fix it in Firefox, Chrome, and Safari
If you have encountered an error message like the one shown below when using Etho™, it is because the browser was not able to access cookies or create a secure cookie to authorize your session. This is caused by various reasons such as ad or script-blocking plugins or by the browser itself if it is not allowed to set cookies.
Please follow the below simple steps to fix this.
Firefox Users
Open the Firefox Options menu.
On the left, select Privacy & Security.
Under Cookies and Site Data click on Manage Permissions, copy and paste “https://manage4.performancescoring.net” and click Allow.
Click Save Changes.
Next, click on Manage Data.
Search for “manage4.performancescoring.net” and select Remove All Shown.
Click Save Changes and confirm in the pop-up window by clicking Remove.
Reload Firefox and log into your Etho™ account.
Chrome Users
Open Chrome Settings.
Scroll to the bottom and click on Advanced.
In the Privacy and security section, click on Content Settings.
Click on Cookies.
Next to Allow, click Add copy and paste “[*.]performancescoring.net” and click Add.
Under All cookies and site data, search for Etho™, and delete all manage4.performancescoring.net related entries.
Reload Chrome and log into your Etho™ account.
Safari Users
Open Safari Preferences from the drop-down menu in the navigation bar or by typing Cmd + , (⌘,).
Click the Privacy tab and make sure that “Cookies and website data” is set to either “Always allow” or “Allow from websites I visit”.
Click on Manage Website Data to see all locally stored website data.
Search for “manage4.performancescoring.net” and remove all Etho™ related entries.
Reload Safari and log into your Etho™ account.
- THE LITE EDITION
	Get started quickly with the Lite Edition of Etho™
Etho™ comes in several editions. One of the first we recommend for organizations new to performance and engagement management is our “Lite” edition. The Lite Edition has all the power of the other editions, with the exception of Performance Objectives. Organizations on the Lite Edition may see links for Objectives in their application, but access is not active. and pages blurred out.
This is the perfect edition to get started with Etho™ with, even if you plan on rolling out Performance Objectives in the near future.
If you want to upgrade, simply create a Support Ticket or email your Etho™ Account Manager. The upgrade is seamless and requires no additional work on your part of the part of employees within your organization.
- I CAN’T SCORE AN EMPLOYEE
It’s a common problem, but not difficult to diagnose.
If you’re trying to give Realtime Feedback or update an Objective for an employee you feel you should be able to but they’re not listed or the Save button isn’t available, here are a few things you can check to resolve the issue.
Does the employee “Report To” you?
Etho™ uses a Reports To structure to manage visibility. If the employee doesn’t report to you (primarily or secondarily), then they won’t be listed as an option. To resolve this, go to the user’s profile (if you have access to it) by going to Users >> Add/Manage Users. Search for the users in the table. Click the edit button next to them, then, update their Reports to Primary to you, or add yourself as Reports to Secondary.
Are they “Scored In” and you “Can Score In”?
If the employee reports to you, they also have to be Scored In the Feedback Category you have the right to Can Score In. Check your own profile under Feedback Permissions as well as theirs to make sure those things line-up.
The same goes for Objectives.
None of that worked!
If none of that worked, submit a support ticket by clicking Support Ticket at the bottom-left of the main navigation and we’ll be happy to help troubleshoot the issue for you.
- I CAN’T SEE MYSELF ON MY TEAM DASHBOARD
Sorry. Access Denied.
This support content is for internal M4P staff members and not avaliable to the public or our clients. Sorry about that. If this article describes your issue, please forward this link to our support team via this contact form.
Sorry you're having trouble, but great news. The fix is right here!
- I DON’T SEE EVERYTHING ON THE SCOREBOARD?
	Let’s walk through what all could be the issue.
Sorry. Access Denied.
This support content is for internal M4P staff members and not avaliable to the public or our clients. Sorry about that. If this article describes your issue, please forward this link to our support team via this contact form.
Sorry you're having trouble, but great news. The fix is right here!
- WHAT IS A “GLOBAL” FEEDBACK CATEGORY?
	It’s rarely used, but worth exploring. If in doubt, just leave it unchecked.
Realtime Feedback are measurable events, tracked in the moment, that you or your organization find critical to your success and culture. In Etho™, these events are organized into Feedback Categories, and users are given permission to Score in these Categories based on their role in the organization. In most cases an organization will only want employees scoring users who report to them, but in some rare cases, it is beneficial to allow employees to score users who do not report to them or who work in different departments. Etho™ can be setup to ignore your organizational hierarchy by utilizing “Global” Feedback Categories.
That’s a pretty strange concept to wrap your head around. Let’s put that in context of two examples.
NOTE: “Global” is not an option for Objective Categories. That just wouldn’t make any sense.
Code Quality (Not Global)
Let’s say we have a feedback category called “Code Quality.” We have all our developers scored in that feedback category. Then, we grant our Lead Developer and our CTO the right to can score in that feedback category.
In this case, only the people who have been granted the right to judge things about “Code Quality” (the Lead Developer and the CTO), can score the only people who have anything to do with code (the Dev team).
We would NOT, for example, want the Office Manager making any “Code Quality” determinations.
If we have two Lead Developers, each of whom lead their own teams of developers (a group of “database-dudes” and a group of “code-cadets”), we only want our Lead Developers scoring their own teams. The “Lead Code Developer” should not be judging the quality of the database-dudes’ code, even though that Lead Developer “can score in” the “Code Quality” Feedback Category.
Put simply, the logic for a non-Global Feedback Category goes like this:
Pull a list of users that report to (in any way) the Logged-in User
Of those users, only list those that are scored in categories the logged-in can score
Once a user is selected, list only the factors in the categories that match the ones picked above
That’s three levels of queries to determine who can score who in what. But, what if you wanted to ignore the organization’s hierarchy in that query (the first part of that query)? That’s what that “Global” checkbox is for.
Safety (Global)
Let’s use a different Realtime Feedback Category example this time. How about “Safety.”
You’ve got an organization where Safety is key, but to varying degrees. Let’s say you’ve got a business where some employees work in the office while others work in the warehouse attached to the office. Here’s how we might set that up.
We create a Feedback Category called “Safety.” Within that Feedback category, we create a series of “Feedbacks” for all the Safety-related things we want employees to be able to score. Then, we grant the right for employees to score in that new “Safety” category. These could be all the employees who are familiar with our safety protocols. Lastly, we add the Safety category as can be scored in to all employees working in the warehouse.
So far, so good.
Employees familiar with our safety protocols can now score employees working in the warehouse in this category. But, there’s a problem.
The employees that work in the warehouse do not, in any way, report to employees working in the office area. Even though they “can score in” the Safety category, they don’t see anyone who works in the office because none of the warehouse employees report to them. That’s a problem.
[Global Feedback Categories] skip anything to do with “Reports To” and focus solely on can score in and is scored in.
To solve for this (rather unusual) use-case, a manager could set the “Safety” feedback category to “Global.”
What that does is remove the “reports to” requirement from the query. In this way, ANY employee that can score in Safety can score ANY employee who is scored in Safety.
The logic then looks more like this for this new Global Feedback Category.
Pull a list of users those that are scored in categories the logged-in can score
Once a user is selected, list only the factors in the categories that match the ones picked above
You’ll note this logic skips anything to do with “Reports to” and focuses solely on can score in and is scored in. That’s the crucks of what Global Feedback Categories are and when to use them.
PRO TIP: Use of “Global” Feedback Categories are a pretty rare in our experience. If in doubt, don’t check the box.
Think “Global” is a terrible name for this feature? Send us your ideas via our contact form. It’s a subject of much debate.
- PERMISSIONS GLOSSARY
	Understanding Access Permissions
Etho™ is a framework designed to help you hire and manage better no matter how large or complex your organization. That’s why the application offers a lot of access permission customizations so employees don’t get overwhelmed with too much information or information they don’t need to see. Much of these permissions are about visibility, but they also respect the Reports To structure, so keep that in mind.
To manage access permissions, you’ll need to go to Roles & Teams >> Build/Manage Roles and Edit the role you want to change permissions for. All users in that Role will inherit the changed permissions.
Here’s a quick glossary of the permissions included in the application along with what they do and links to more information about how those features work.
For the sake of ease, there are also three pre-built tiers at the top titled: Executive-Level, Manager-Level, and Employee-Level. Click one to auto-toggle on and off the most common permissions for roles like these and then customize them from there.
Permissions
Permissions are grouped into four buckets. Here are the permissions available and what they mean in each of those buckets.
Default Permission
User Can Login: The role will have the ability to log into to the application. 
User Can Be Scored: The role will have the ability to be scored by other users. 
Edit Own Profile: The role will have the ability to edit their own profile.
Realtime Feedback: User will have the RealTime Feedback menu option visible to them.
View ScoreBoard: The role will have the ability to view the ScoreBoard for themselves and their reporting users. 
View FeedackBoard: The role can view the FeedbackBoard for themselves and their reporting users. 
View ShoutOuts: The role will have the ability to view Shout Outs for themselves and their reporting users. 
Team Report Card: Formerly called the “Team Report Card” this allows users to view their Team Dashboard.
View My Score: Allows the role to view its own score.
Coaching: Enables the “Coaching” module for this role.
Add Scorecard: The role will have the ability to add new ScoreCards. 
View Scorecards: The role will have the ability to view Entries in ScoreCard Categories in which they have permission to score in. 
View Categories: Enables this role to view Feedback and Objective categories.
Is Non-Reportable: This permission means that nobody can Report To users in this role and they cannot be scored.
View Drilldown: Enables visibility of the ScoreBoard Drilldown chart on the Dashboard and in the Menu.
View Performance Quadrants: Enables the visibility of the Performance/Alignment Scatter Plot on the Team Dashboard for users in this role.
User Management Permissions
Bulk User Upload: The role will have the ability to bulk upload/update/import users for this company, IF they have permission to Manage Users.
Manage Users: The role will have the ability to add and edit other users. 
Manage User Groups: Formerly “User Groups” this allows users in this role to Add, Create, and Edit Teams
View Usage Report: The role will have access to see the usage report which shows who logged-in and how many times.
View Accountability Chart: The role will have access to an interactive Org Chart, showing all reporting users.
Edit Other’s Profile: Allows users in this role to edit the profiles of other users in the application, regardless of Reports To structure.
View Master ScoreBoard: For the most part, this permission should always be toggled OFF.
Management Permissions
Manage Feedback: The role will have the ability to create and edit factors in the Feedback Categories in which they can score. 
Manage Objectives: The role will have the ability to create and edit Objectives in the Objective Categories in which they can score. Objectives are not available in the Lite Edition.
Manage Roles: The role will have the ability to create and edit roles. 
View Masterscoreboard (Admin Level): The role has the ability to view the entire organization’s ScoreBoard with every active ScoreCard Category. It skips the Reports To structure completely.
Manage Categories: Enables users to add and edit Objective and Feedback categories.
Manage Category Groups: Enables users to create and edit Category Groups which are used in the Drilldown Chart if there are a lot of active Objective or Feedback Categories and you want them grouped.
Company Setup (Admin Level): Allows users in this role to edit organization-wide settings originally created during Company Creation.
Create New Company (Super-Admin Level): Allows this role to create new organizations.
Manage Questions: Enables creation and editing of questions for Pulse Surveys and 1-on-1s.
Manage Bulk Objectives: Allows this user to mass update Objectives for the users that Report To them. Objectives are not available in the Lite Edition.
Manage People Analytics: Access information about all users within an organization and run reports. More information here. Skips the Reports To structure.
Setup Wizard: Allows users (managers and up usually) to quickly setup or re-setup Objectives and hierarchy for the users that report to them. Objectives are not available in the Lite Edition. Documentation here.
Edit Historic Objectives: Grants users in this role the ability to add/edit objectives in the meeting ScoreCard backwards in history. By default, being able to “Manage Objectives” only lets the user add/edit objectives’ current values. This permission lets them go back in time to add or update objectives in the past.
Projects Permissions
There are just 6 permissions for Projects. The rest of the visibility/permissions are handled by an invitation/acceptance system. In this way, you are invited to a project or a meeting and, if you accept, you can see everything included in that project or meeting–regardless of Reporting structure. After all, you’ve been invited to take a “seat at the table.”
Access Projects: Enables or Disables access to any and all parts of Projects.
Visualize Projects: Enables use of the Gantt chart for visualizing projects and updating start/end dates.
Create/Edit Meetings: Grants this role permission to create meetings and edit meetings they have created.
Create/Edit Projects: Grants this role permission to create projects and edit projects they have created.
Create/Edit Tasks: Grants this role permission to create or edit tasks as well as the Manager View.
Global Project Settings: Grants this role permission to edit global defaults and variables, like naming conventions, Segue questions, and high-level initiatives. Full article here.
- CHANGE YOUR PASSWORD
	Need to update your password, here’s how.
This article is how to change an existing Etho™ password. If you have forgotten or don’t know your current password or need to change a password for someone else please see Resetting User Passwords
You can change your own password from any screen within the application.
When you are logged in you will see your name in the top right of the page header for each page in the application.
Simply click on the down arrow next to your name, and select Change Password from the dropdown menu.
You will be taken to the login page where you can enter your current password and your new password.
Once you click Change Password you will be taken back to the login screen where you can now enter your email and new password to access the application.
- WHY ETHO™ BELIEVES KPI’S NEED TO RETIRE
	Why not have live authentic data based on realistic expectations and objectives set collectively by management and their employees?
No one knows exactly where KPI’s originated from, but what we do know is that these were not intended to measure individual performance. KPI’s have this ability to cause more harm then good in the long run which is why we prefer to have ‘performance forward’ conversations.
How Can We Move Forward?
Instead of faulty assumptions and isolating individual performance based on KPI’s why not have live authentic data based on realistic expectations and objectives set collectively by management and their employees.
Etho™ does just that through our performance engagement  application. We believe managing people and having performance driven conversations through our simple yet effective platform will leverage more time to focus and hone in on areas of improvement company wide.
“ I think there should be opportunities for people to have conversations about their performance, but I don’t think capturing them in one annual or biannual format is the right way to do it.”                     
Georgia Murch, Author of Feedback Flow and Fixing Feedback
Georgia touches on a few reasons why infrequent reviews aren’t positive
Feedback is stale: A conversation or situation that happened 6 months ago, details won’t be remembered. Opinions replace objective information.
Feedback becomes “tell” oriented: there’s a lot of perspectives about the employees performance that is crammed into a small amount of time.
Close to 80,000 work hours are used each year to prep for these annual reviews
This approach does not build up or encourage the individual but instead pushes them to find yet another company that may value and utilize their skills. There has to be a shift in company atmosphere’s where we create a place of trust, honest reflection, collaboration on problem solving and not the blame game, and focus on moving forward.
Etho™ has been custom tailored, built as a framework, to be customized to your company’s needs. An engagement application that changes the dynamic and perspective of these reviews. Etho™ is here to help develop, build, and retain employees through creating dynamic and collaborative environments that allow space for  forward conversations to happen.
Creating change in how we engage with people, moving to more high frequency and low stake engagements, exchanging authority at the expense of additional accountability, pushing people to recognize and reward each other, and meeting people in the moment before challenges become catastrophes, these are the things that are proving why Etho™ drives higher performing organizations.
- HOW TO CREATE A SUPPORT TICKET
	Need a hand? We’re here to help.
There are several ways to get the help you need. You can search this Knowledge Base or reach out to us directly. Here are the three primary ways to reach out to Etho™ Support.
Create a Support Ticket
If you can login to your Etho™ account and you have adequate permissions in your user role, you’ll see a link at the bottom-right of the main navigation titled “Support Ticket.” Click that link to be taken to a page which allows power-users like you to create a support ticket yourself which goes straight to your dedicated Etho™ Support Team.
At the top-right of the ticket creation form, you’ll see a button that says “Autofill Form.” Clicking that will automatically populate the form with the information the application already knows about you, such as your name, email address, phone number, and the last page you visited. You can remove these values or update them. They’re there only for your convenience.
This is by far the fastest way to get a response to your issue with response times measured in hours or minutes.
“Contact Us” Form
On our main website, ethoconnects.com, there’s a link in the main navigation (top) under “About” for “Contact.” Click that and complete the Contact Us form.
This form, because it’s routed through sales, operations and finally support is the slowest option (1 business day), but always an option if you’re locked-out.
- LOGIN TO THE ETHO™ APPLICATION
To login to the company’s Etho™ application, just go to: manage4.performancescoring.net.
This will bring up your company’s Etho™ home page. Select the “User Login” button and this will bring up the company’s page.
To login, select “Email” and type in your designated company email. Likewise, select “Password” and type in your personal password.
If you have forgotten your password, select “Forgot Password” below the login button. This will bring up a Reset Password prompt, type in your company email and select the “Send Password Reset Link”. You will be sent a reset password request via email. Once you have entered your correct email and password, select “Login“. For additional support please contact your Account Manager.
- RESETTING USER PASSWORDS
	Having trouble logging in? Happens to the best of us.
Forgot your password? Password just doesn’t seem to be working? Etho™ features several ways to regain entry to Etho™.
Forgot Password
From the login screen, you can click on Forgot Password, enter your email address, and the system will send you a link to that email, if it’s in the system, to reset your password yourself.
Reset another’s Password
If your role has permission to view all users, you can go to Users >> Add/Manage Users. From there, click the orange button, Change User Password.
That button opens a modal window. Within that window, start typing the user or users whose passwords you’d like to change. Enter the password below. Make it a strong password, ideally. Then, enter the password again. If the two match, click Apply.
Create a Support Ticket
If your role has the permission, you can click on Support Ticket under Support on the left-navigation. Complete that form and an Etho™ Support team member will update the password for you.
As always, if there’s anything we can do to help, just contact Etho™ Support.
- UPDATING THE ACCOUNTABILITY CHART
It’s very likely that employees will move positions and change the structure of your organization. Here’s how to change where your people fall in your Accountability Chart. This will also change what they can and cannot see (permissions-dependent).
Click Users and click on Add/Manage Users
Search for the employee you want to change
Click the Edit button next to their name
Scroll down to Primary Reports to and change that to who you want them to report to
If other employees report to the person you’re updating, that’s ok.  They’ll still “report to” the individual they did before.  
If you don’t see the change immediately when you return to the Accountability Chart, you might have to logout and log back in.  It’s rare, but it happens.
- WELCOME TO ETHO™!
Etho is your all-in-one platform for people, meetings, and progress. Etho is easy-to-use with a full suite of tools to help you create deeply connected, high-performing organizations. 
When hiring, most companies fail to consider all of the components that determine whether the right candidate is sitting in the right seat. We so often see poor retention, a lack of transparency, underperformance, and managers feeling lost when an employee is not sitting in the right seat. 
The Titus Talent Strategies and Performance Scoring teams came together to identify and address this common gap in the workplace and to create Etho, “The characteristic spirit of a culture, as manifested in its beliefs and aspirations.”
We’ve proven through our process that evaluating people, simplifying meetings, and tracking performance, not only gets you the right hire but also provides valuable information to help engage, retain and develop your people. 
- MEETING STRATEGIES EVERY MANAGER SHOULD KNOW
	Stop the meeting madness!
The saying “time is money” is certainly true. While there are many different activities that take up your time during your workweek, one of the worst is a pointless meeting. In this webinar, we’re going to show you how to master your meetings. Stop the meeting madness and learn how to tie your team’s project, performance, and people strategies together to see success.
Key Objectives:
Learn how to minimize the number of meetings you have, and how to maximize their value and impact.
Learn how to increase the efficiency, accountability, and visibility of your team meetings.
Learn how to properly use meeting time to increase your team’s levels of productivity.
- CREATING A FEEDBACK CULTURE
We live with feedback every day; feedback that tells us where we are and enables to make the necessary changes to get to where we are going successfully. Giving timely feedback is a gift and when it’s sewn into the fabric of an organizations culture it is the gift that keeps on giving (provided you do something with it, but that’s another story).
There are many benefits to having a culture of feedback in your organization. In Part 1 of this 3-week webinar series, we’re covering why feedback matters, how to give it, and how Etho helps you facilitate feedback with ease.
Key Objectives:
Learn why feedback is a critical component in improving performance organization-wide and is a two-way street.
Learn how to involve, encourage, and energize others through constructive feedback.
Learn the importance of investing in the right feedback tools for your team.
- A PEOPLE FIRST PERFORMANCE SOLUTION
Empower your leaders to nail their business objectives with Etho. One platform with a full suite of tools to develop team engagement, promote performance, and exceed expectations.
Build Deeply Connected, High-Performing Teams, with Etho.
- EMPLOYEE CHECK-INS
	New system implementations can be a long and stressful process, but they don’t have to be.
Have you ever heard of employee check-ins? They’re meetings that managers have with their employees on a regular basis. These meetings are a great way for managers to give feedback, provide coaching, set goals, and address any concerns or questions the employee may have. Whether they’re done in person or virtually, employee check-ins can be a really valuable tool for both managers and employees. 
So, why are employee check-ins important? Well, regular check-ins can help managers build rapport with their team members and provide ongoing support. They also promote transparency and open communication within the organization. By holding regular check-ins, managers can identify issues before they become major problems and provide timely feedback to help employees improve their performance. And who doesn’t want to improve their performance, right? 
Effective check-ins can even help to improve employee engagement and retention by providing opportunities for growth and development. Employees who feel supported and valued are more likely to stick around for the long haul. 
Now, if you’re a manager looking to conduct an effective check-in, here are some tips to help you out: 
Schedule Regular Check-ins: Make sure you schedule regular check-ins with your employees, whether it’s weekly, bi-weekly, or monthly. Consistency is key! 
Prepare Ahead of Time: Before the check-in, make sure you prepare an agenda and review any relevant information or performance metrics. This will help you stay focused and ensure that you cover all the necessary topics. 
Focus on the Employee: Remember, the check-in should be about the employee, not the manager. Ask open-ended questions to understand their perspective and provide feedback based on their goals and performance. 
Listen and Respond: Active listening is key! Listen to what the employee is saying and respond with empathy and understanding. Provide actionable feedback and solutions to any challenges they’re facing. 
Set Goals: Use the check-in as an opportunity to set goals and objectives for the employee. These goals should be specific, measurable, and achievable within a reasonable timeframe. 
Follow Up: After the check-in, make sure you follow up with the employee to ensure they’re making progress on their goals and to address any outstanding issues. 
And if you’re looking for an application that can help you conduct effective employee check-ins, look no further than Etho! With Etho, managers can build stronger relationships with their team members and create a positive and productive work environment. It’s a win-win for everyone involved! 
Here at Etho™, our application matches your organizational structure and changes along with your organization. Etho™ is not a one-size-fits-all performance management tool, it will grow and mold as your organization does.  Just like our application, our Implementation Team will work with you to customize an implementation plan that benefits your entire organization. Partner with Etho™ today, to experience the benefits of unlocking effective performance management.
- PROJECT STATUS “FEELINGS”
	How Do You Feel About the Math?
Sorry. Access Denied.
This support content is for internal M4P staff members and not avaliable to the public or our clients. Sorry about that. If this article describes your issue, please forward this link to our support team via this contact form.
Sorry you're having trouble, but great news. The fix is right here!
- THE ART OF THE ONE-ON-ONE MEETINGS
	Download the Step-By-Step Guide on How To Maximize One-On-One Meetings
Meetings… people tend to have a love-hate relationship with them. If you’re one of those people and you feel like your workday is already on meeting overdrive, then you are probably completely overlooking the art of regular one-on-one conversations with your team members.  One-on-one meetings are one of the most misunderstood yet most powerful tools for managers.
One-on-one meetings are one of the most misunderstood yet most powerful tools for managers. What if we told you that regular one-on-one conversations could actually help clear up some extra time during your busy workday and help bring extra value to your business?  
Regular one-on-one’s with your team members is a key way to ensure that everyone stays aligned and feels supported in both their professional and personal development. They leave employees feeling more energized, engaged, and better equipped to do their jobs. In the long-term, you will ultimately see an increase in things like job satisfaction and employee retention rates, which means that you get to spend more time focused on growing your business rather than looking to fill a new seat every few months. 
But, before we dive any deeper, let’s define exactly what a “one-on-one” is.
Benefits of a One-on-One 
By definition, a one-on-one is a regular meeting between managers and their team members. They serve as a great way for managers to check in with their team members and create more meaningful connections with each one individually. 
Establish Manager-Employee Relationships 
A relationship isn’t created overnight. How can you expect to establish a meaningful relationship with your team members if you’re only sitting down with them yearly or quarterly at their performance reviews?  
A great team leader acknowledges the significance that a regular one-on-one meeting has on their relationship with an employee. One-on-one’s are an essential part of a healthily functioning team, and they help build trust. A trusting relationship in the workplace brings the team together and creates a safe space for everyone to communicate openly. Maintaining ongoing communication solidifies trust and builds authentic relationships. 
Empower Employees Performance 
According to Gallup, employees who have regular one-on-one conversations with their managers are three times more likely to be engaged in their job. Connecting employees’ everyday work tasks with your bigger picture team objectives ultimately drives a sense of purpose and motivation. Take the one-on-one time with your employees to discuss performance objectives that align with not only your business goals but also their personal values and goals.   
One-on-ones help create ongoing clarity of responsibilities and expectations, so at the end of the meeting when they have concrete action items, they are empowered to take accountability and strive for strong performance. When you truly take advantage of your one-on-one conversations with your employees, it will show in their performance. 
Give and Receive Feedback 
One-on-one’s bring managers and employees together. They provide a space where both parties can share feedback, discuss performance objectives, and identify potential roadblocks. As managers, we want our people to feel that they can always be open and honest with us. You should actively listen to your team members and provide feedback and guidance as needed.  
Frequent communication opens the door for managers and employees to give each other feedback in real-time and apply it just as quickly. You should use this time to give your employees constructive criticism on their performance or even to discuss what is and isn’t working in your business culture. It is crucial that you allow feedback to flow both ways. 
Support Employee Development 
One-on-one meetings are not only a time to get a pulse on your employee’s well-being, but it is also an opportunity to look ahead at their future development. These conversations give you the opportunity to brainstorm ideas together, work through feedback, and discuss employee goals and future growth opportunities. One-on-one’s can help you see the full picture ahead, which ultimately allows you have a more effective one-on-one performance conversation. 
In some organizations, employees and their managers rarely get a chance to talk in private, so a regular one-on-one would allow every single person to share their goals, aspirations, concerns, and even their out-of-the-box ideas that they may have been too afraid to share in a public or team setting.  
How To Maximize One-on-One’s 
One-on-one meetings are often given less credit than they deserve, and they are truly underutilized.  
Are you ready to learn how to master one-on-one meetings with your team? We have a guide that can walk you through it step by step. Download the guide to get started. 
- DOWNLOAD THE CREATING PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES GUIDE
	Download our free guide on how to define, create and apply meaningful and achievable performance objectives that drive success in a connected and impactful way.
If you’re evaluating your Performance Strategy and you’re looking to maximize the growth opportunities for your people, then our guide on Creating Performance Objectives will point you in the right direction.​ Download our free guide on how to define, create and apply meaningful and achievable performance objectives that drive success in a connected and impactful way.
Holding your people accountable to arbitrary, vague goals is like expecting them to hit a target while blindfolded. Additionally, without a clear metric of success, management is ill-equipped to coach, mentor, and train their employees. 
Bring clarity and a refreshed drive to perform by defining what it means to succeed in every role through crafting Performance Objectives with your employees.
- REINVENTING PERFORMANCE STRATEGY REQUIRES A NEW SET OF TOOLS
	A well-designed performance review software has the potential to transform your company.
When Apple introduced the Panoramic option on their camera phone it opened up the ability to see the big picture and to take in the whole view. Performance strategy optimizes your hiring investment while also focusing on the impact of the team as a whole. It’s a new world that can rise and fall based on the tools you use to build it. It’s hard to overstate the impact of the quality of an organization’s performance management system. Everything from ensuring a strategically aligned talent pipeline to engaging and motivating your People relies on your performance management system.​
A well-designed performance review software has the potential to transform your company. Here’s how:
Real-time feedback. 
Annual performance reviews aren’t cutting it. Research continues to demonstrate the benefits of consistent, regular feedback over once a year performance management reviews. Performance review software systems give employees access to performance metrics at any given time.
Realtime Feedback
Better promotion decisions. 
How do you know you’re promoting the right people? Poor promotion decisions not only hurt the company’s bottom line, but they have a negative impact on employee motivation and morale. A performance review software tracks performance overtime so you can spot high performers and make the best promotion decisions.
FAILED
Reward the right behaviors. 
If you want your rewards (compensation, bonuses, special recognition, etc.) to mean something, they must be tied to performance. A well-crafted performance review software tracks performance, so that you can reward the behaviors you want more of from your People.
Data to make legally defensible human capital decisions. 
While this isn’t likely your primary reason for adopting a performance review software, having data to back your human capital decisions provides another layer of security when it comes to defending your termination or promotion decisions.
Accountability. 
If you are going to hold your People accountable, you need some sort of tracking system to document their performance. A performance review software holds employees accountable to their specific performance objectives, driving a culture of accountability.
Identify and manage low performers. 
If an employee is underperforming, it’s better to know sooner rather than later. Without performance review software, low performers can fly under the radar more easily. With a solid way of tracking performance, you can identify low performers ahead of time, potentially having a powerful impact on your company’s bottom line.
Track employee growth. 
A performance review software shows progress over time. Your People can see the ways they’ve adapted their behaviors based on feedback and grown in their abilities. If you want to instill a “growth mindset” among your People, a performance review software is a critical step.
Motivate employees. 
Not knowing how you’re performing or what you can improve upon can be extremely demotivating and frustrating. When employees have consistent access to information about where they are, what they can do to grow, and where their next milestones are, they are more motivated to put forth the effort to develop and expand their skill set.
Keep a pulse on employee engagement. 
Engagement is critical to overall organizational success. Our Etho™ software allows you to send our pulse surveys to gather valuable information on engagement levels among your People. 
Spot trends. 
Putting into motion a performance review software can uncover trends that can help you take the right action towards better People management. The ability to analyze group data provides deeper insight on employee performance. For instance, you might discover that a specific team within your organization is underperforming or that a specific age group is particularly unengaged. While paper-pushing performance review processes fail to capture this analysis, a sophisticated performance review software can shed light on trends that matter. 
It’s hard to overstate the impact of the quality of an organization’s performance management system. Everything from ensuring a strategically aligned talent pipeline to engaging and motivating your People relies on your performance management system.
Etho™ is a performance review software platform that measures quality of hire, maximizes real-time data, and optimizes performance. It’s highly customizable, offering a plethora of services that you can opt in or out of depending on your goals. Schedule a demo with us today! 
- STOP MANAGING THE GREATNESS OUT OF YOUR PEOPLE
	How you can turn B and C Players into A-Players
How is it that sports teams, movies or businesses can hire the “best people”, the biggest stars, the brightest talents but those people don’t work out and they don’t perform as expected? In this webinar we explore this question and look at the 8 common people de-motivators, some of which may surprise you.​ We lift the lid on what your team members are REALLY looking for and share some insights into how you can turn B and C Players into A-Players who in turn become brand ambassadors who can also help you attract top talent!
- GET THE MOST OUT OF YOUR PERFORMANCE REVIEWS
	There’s a science to performance reviews
There’s a science to performance reviews. Done well, they equip and motivate employees. On the other hand, a poor performance review process discourages employees and can even lead to legal issues. Join us as we discuss key strategies to make your performance review process a win for employee engagement and motivation.
Learning Objectives:
Take the coaching approach: 4 ways to go beyond traditional management and conduct performance reviews like a coach
Identify crucial talking points to cover that foster connection, collaboration, and clarity
Lay out the practical “how-tos” that maximize this connection point with employees
Etho™ Workshop: Get the Most Out of Your Performance Reviews
- LIVING OUT YOUR DIVERSITY STATEMENT
	The 5 Cs to managing a diverse workforce in a way that brings out the best in every employee
Do your employees know what “winning” at their job looks like? People are far more likely to accomplish goals when there are attainable, measurable outcomes attached to them. When it comes to the workplace, employees need clarity on exactly what results are expected of them. Join us as we discuss how to motivate employees through measurable performance objectives.
Learning Objectives:
What the “Learning & Growth” mindset is & why it matters to you organization
Identify the dimensions of diversity & how equity and inclusion practices matter to each dimension
Understand the 5 Cs to managing a diverse workforce in a way that brings out the best in every employee
Etho™ Workshop: Living Out Your Diversity Statement
- CREATE A GAME PLAN WITH MEASURABLE PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES
Do your employees know what “winning” at their job looks like? People are far more likely to accomplish goals when there are attainable, measurable outcomes attached to them. When it comes to the workplace, employees need clarity on exactly what results are expected of them. Join us as we discuss how to motivate employees through measurable performance objectives.
Learning Objectives:
Craft performance objectives for every role
How to transition from job descriptions to performance profiles
Bring accountability through performance-based coaching
Etho™ Workshop: Create a Game Plan with Measurable Performance Objectives
Check out the recorded webinar at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJAxs0AQvws
- ELEVATE EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE THROUGH CRITICAL CONVERSATIONS
	Don’t save critical conversations for annual performance reviews.
Too many leaders save their critical conversations for annual performance reviews. With healthy relationships and a feedback culture, you can create a workplace where feedback is freely given and received on a day-to-day basis.
Learning Objectives:
Establish a culture where feedback is viewed as a gift
Embed feedback in your organizations’ daily rhythms
Conduct critical conversations as a coach: with clarity, compassion, and collaboration
Etho™ Workshop: Elevate Employee Performance Through Critical Conversations
- PEOPLE-FIRST FOCUS
What does “people-first” actually mean? What does it look like? How do you cultivate it? It’s about potential and how to draw it out. You see, when people are at their best, your organization is at its best.
- PERFORMANCE-DRIVEN FOCUS
Picture a workplace where top-performers are drawn to. Teams reaching their maximum potential. Performance you can see and guarantee. But how do we get there? Three words: Etho™.
- CREATING TEMPLATED OBJECTIVES
	Until you’re ready to really define and bring clarity and specificity to objectives, you may want to use something a little more broad. Here’s how.
This video is created to give you a guide on how to create templated versions of objectives for individual contributors, or for your direct reports, who may be managers and have other direct reports and we realize that, ultimately, the goal is, you want to create specific, measurable objectives for each person within your team.
Until that point where you can really define and bring clarity and specificity, you may want to use something that is a little more broad and global so that you can create objectives that allow you to do coaching right away. So I want to walk through a video here that can show you how to do that.
Once created, you also have the option to update them in bulk using Mass Update, if you have that permission set in your user’s role.
- HOW TO HAVE EFFECTIVE COACHING CONVERSATIONS
If you’re a high coaching culture organization, we recommend having quarterly reviews with weekly 1:1 meetings that can include coaching conversations. For more of a moderate level coaching culture, we recommend semi annual reviews with bi-monthly coaching sessions or 1:1 meetings. If you’re at an entry level point for coaching and communication, annual review and monthly 1:1/coaching conversations are a great place to start. You can always build from there!
- CHANGE MANAGEMENT FOR BUILDING A CULTURE OF COACHING
If you want to build a successful culture, there are several key components you need to enact that will impact your company’s ability to truly create a culture of coaching.
- THE AIM METHOD FOR SPOTTING LIARS
	Specifically, managers make it clear to interviewees that if they provide longer, more detailed statements about the event of interest, then the investigator will be better able to detect if they are telling the truth or lying.
Managers, whether interviewing candidates or coaching existing employees, know they’re looking to put the right person in the right seat. The problem is research shows they generally fail spectacularly.
The problem isn’t bad intentions. It’s human fallibility. Study after study confirms most bosses just can’t seem to stop themselves from being taken in by overconfident blowhards.
Method > Polygraph
As psychologist Cody Porter explained in a recent piece for The Conversation, there is a method that was developed for law enforcement and designed as an alternative to the notoriously unreliable lie detector tests you’ve probably seen on TV cop shows. Instead of hooking suspects up to a stress-measuring machine, Porter and her collaborators suggest a particular technique to sniff out liars.
That’s handy for managers, as you probably don’t have a polygraph machine laying around the office. Also, given this new method boils down to just asking questions differently, there is no reason it couldn’t be adapted easily for professional interviews and formal employee reviews.
Asymmetric Information Management (AIM)
Porter’s method is based on a simple observation about liars — they don’t like to get into specifics because they know they are more likely to get caught out if they do. True tellers, on the other hand, are happy to get into the nitty gritty with you. You can leverage this truth to your advantage with the new technique, which goes by the fancy name of Asymmetric Information Management (AIM).
“Essentially, the AIM method involves informing suspects of these facts,” Porter explains. “Specifically, interviewers make it clear to interviewees that if they provide longer, more detailed statements about the event of interest, then the investigator will be better able to detect if they are telling the truth or lying. For truth-tellers, this is good news. For liars, this is less good news.”
[Managers] make it clear that if [the other person] provides longer, more detailed statements about the event of interest, then the [manager] will be better able to detect if they are telling the truth or lying. For truth-tellers, this is good news. For liars, this is less good news.
Research shows that when you tell a suspect that more details are better, truth tellers rush to discuss the minutiae of the case. Liars try to stick to generalities, offering as few specifics as they can get away with. And the difference is easy to spot. In one experiment, interviewers’ ability to spot a liar jumped from 48 percent (the same as blind chance) to 81 percent of the time when they started using the AIM technique.
Elon Musk already knew that.
That huge jump in BS-detection rates might come as a happy surprise to many cops, but one person it likely wouldn’t shock is Elon Musk. He told the World Government Summit back in 2017 that he always uses the same approach to interviewing, asking every candidate, “Tell me about some of the most difficult problems you worked on and how you solved them.”
Genuinely skilled truth tellers are thrilled to get into the weeds with you. Those who skate by on charisma can’t do the same.
Musk goes on to explain that “the people who really solved the problem, they know exactly how they solved it, they know the little details.” In other words, Musk long ago intuitively grasped the truth behind Porter’s research — genuinely skilled (if sometimes socially awkward) truth tellers will be thrilled to get into the weeds with you. Those who skate by on charisma can’t do the same.
- CREATING A HIGHLY MOTIVATED, HIGHLY ENGAGED, WINNING TEAM
What does it take for your organization to WIN? We’ve found that the secret sauce only requires 2 ingredients – a people first AND a high-performance culture. ​
That’s why we crafted our revolutionary Etho™ software – to help you bring out the best in your people so your teams can win together.​
- BUILDING A PEOPLE FIRST, HIGH-PERFORMANCE
	Time to Level-Up
Your dream culture of high-performing, highly engaged employees won’t happen on its own – it requires intentionality. Want to boost performance and put your People First? Give this one motto a try.
- WHY YOU MUST HAVE A SCOREBOARD
	How can you win if you don’t know the score?
A head coach of any sports team has a goal in mind; they want to win the championship. To do that, they need every single one of their players to know exactly what success looks like in their position and in their role. You train and train and train for that competency to get up to an A-player standard. When every single team player is functioning at their A game, that’s how you win championships.
One of the things the team members need to know is the score. They need to know how they are doing on the scoreboard. When they come in from half-time, they have studied what they need to do to win the game, but they also need to know what the score is. What is the gap? What needs to be made up? What do they need to catch up on?
Having a coaching culture in companies helps people know what it’s going to take to be an A-player, and it delivers coaching competencies around their individual performance. How do you help them get to the next level? How do you help stretch them and give them a greater level of confidence to hit their performance goals and objectives? What skills do they needed added so that they can hit their goal?
You have to know what it’s going to take to win the championship, who you need to beat, and your competency gaps to get you to the ability to actually exceed your competition.
Jonathan Reynolds
Every coach wants to win the championship, but you have to have a strategic plan. You have to know what it’s going to take to win the championship, who you need to beat, and your competency gaps to get you to the ability to actually exceed your competition. Every single one of your team members needs to know what A looks like.
Whether it’s a position on the field or a seat in an organization, what does success look like? If you are going to beat your competition or win at your own game success has to be defined. A great coach comes and helps show which competencies an individual needs to grow in to be able to hit their A game.
Once you get all of that working together with a transparent scoreboard where everyone can see what their individual score is, how their team is doing, and how the company is performing, you can start inspiring people to the same shared goal, which is winning. To win championships, the head coach needs to actually come alongside team members and help them get to their A Game.
- PATHETIC OR EMPATHETIC MANAGERS?
	People don’t quit a job, they quit a manager.
People don’t quit a job; 57% of employees say they quit a manager. We are facing a unique situation. Unemployment is at 4.3 million and yet we are seeing more and more people walking out of their jobs. Why? Companies are realizing their retention strategy needs to be on par, if not surpassing their hiring strategy, and a big part of this is equipping managers to connect with their teams in a genuine, sincere and empathetic way.
There’s no question that empathy in leadership has always existed in some capacity, but the emphasis on its value and the attention being given to it is new. With authors like Brene Brown and Simon Sinek leading the way with talks on the importance of the “soft skills” of leadership, the national spotlight has found its way to how critical empathy is – and we are all better for it.
Emotionally Safe Teams Function Better
There isn’t a leader alive that doesn’t want their team to function better or be more effective. That seems like an obvious statement, but it is foundational to begin leading this way. Most of us have heard about a little spunky startup that goes by the name of Google. Kidding aside, Google has had a tremendous amount of success over the last couple of decades and that is due, in part, to their innovation.
At the heart of innovation is making sure you have the talent to come up with and bring ideas to life, as well as having great teams that are able to execute on these ideas. Google, wanting to know what makes a great team, embarked on a two year study to find out what the secret sauce was to having a high performing team. Guess what they found?
Guess what one of the key ingredients is in making an environment like Google? Leaders who have high levels of empathy.
The result was that the highest performing teams at Google all had one thing in common, the members of the team felt psychologically safe. These teams felt secure in sharing ideas and worries and knew they were able to do this without being judged or criticized when they shared. Guess what one of the key ingredients is in making an environment like this? Leaders who have high levels of empathy.
I don’t know about you, but I love it when things come full circle. Leaders who are able to demonstrate empathy are able to create environments where their people feel safe and are thus able to operate at a higher level consistently. Anyone who has ever worked in a high functioning team and has also been part of a “team” where there is backstabbing with an “everyone for themselves” mentality can tell you there is a massive difference between the two. That tone is set by the leader of a team and if you hope to have an environment that feels emotionally safe, your employees are going to need to see you demonstrate empathy.
Inspire Loyalty
One of the main reasons people leave organizations is due to a lack of trust with leadership and a clear lack of appreciation. This isn’t a surprise when you think about it because trust is a fundamental piece of any relationship. When was the last time you heard someone say, “I can’t trust my partner, our relationship is great!”?
My assumption is you probably haven’t heard that because trust is essential. One of the best ways to build trust is by demonstrating empathy. As a leader, putting yourself in the shoes of the people you manage, hearing their concerns and creating an environment where they know they can come to you and depend on your reaction is critical. By using empathy, you can create an environment of emotional consistency and dependability, which goes hand in hand with trust.
90% of employees state they are more likely to stay with an empathetic leader.
In a recent study by Training Industry, 90% of employees polled stated they are more likely to stay with an empathetic leader. We all know that talent attraction is expensive. There has never been a talent market in which the top performing people are openly available. Getting the best people is hard – it is costly and losing them can be devastating to a team, a department and in large enough scale, a company. No leader goes into work hoping their best person walks into their office and hands in their two-week notice.
The Compound Effects of Empathy
As a team leader, I absolutely want my people to be happier, more productive and ultimately stay with the organization longer. I also would hate to be responsible for creating an environment where my people don’t trust me, thereby making them less effective and causing them to leave the company sooner. It doesn’t matter how effective I am at other components of my job if the outcome is that my employees are disengaged and demotivated.
Having a happy, motivated and effective team that will stay intact for a longer period of time is what we all strive for as leaders. And since that is the case, every organization should want empathetic leaders who put in the effort to not only strive towards those goals but strive to create an environment with employee well-being in mind. That starts with empathy.
- BEYOND OUR EGOS
	Responding to Critical Feedback by Digging In and Doing
We believe that creating a culture of feedback is a critical step to becoming a successful company that breeds engagement among its ranks. Making this a reality begins with leadership.  
As a leader, you set the tone for how feedback should be received. The way you respond to feedback, for better or for worse, will send a message to employees. You’ll either communicate that feedback is a gift, setting into motion a rich culture of growing and learning together or you’ll send the message that feedback is not welcome, resulting in a stifled and toxic workplace. Further, you’ll miss out on growth opportunities that come from listening to feedback and letting it grow and shape you as a leader. 
One of the main hurdles when it comes to receiving feedback well is our own egos and self-images. When we hear feedback about ourselves that doesn’t align with our self-image, we tend to respond by denying or defending. We may deny the feedback, insisting that it simply isn’t true of us. Or we may agree that the feedback is true, but have a justification for our behavior (we tend to be masters at justifying ourselves). 
Rather than denying and defending, your challenge as a leader is to respond to feedback by digging in and doing.   Feedback is a gift.
When we immediately deny or defend ourselves, we close the conversation, forfeit a growth opportunity, and damage the relationship. Ultimately, this will hurt your team and company as a whole. Remember: feedback is a gift! 
Rather than denying and defending, your challenge as a leader is to respond to feedback by digging in and doing.  
To resist denying and defending, and to instead dig in and do, we must wholeheartedly embrace these four ideas: 
I am not perfect and I am looking to improve. 
I have blind spots that others may be able to see. 
I trust that my team members give honest feedback. 
Even if I disagree with them, I trust that they are giving me an honest picture of their perception, and their perception has value. If I deny their perception, I’m eroding the trust between us. 
The insights from my team members are essential to my growth and the success of our company. 
Digging in. 
Let’s start with digging in. Often, we don’t initially see the truth in the feedback we receive. (I’m not THAT bad at responding to emails? Or I really don’t interrupt people in meetings unless I absolutely need to). When this happens, it’s time to quiet your initial emotions and reactions and dig into the feedback you’ve received. Here’s three steps to successfully digging in: 
Thank the feedback giver. 
If you respond to constructive feedback by genuinely thanking the feedback giver, you have just taken a massive step towards moving beyond your ego and creating a feedback culture!  
Ask clarifying questions. 
There’s huge potential for miscommunication when giving and receiving feedback. Mitigate the potential for miscommunication by asking clarifying questions. A good way to do this is to summarize the complaint you’ve heard and ask if you’ve summarized it correctly.
Ask what change they would like to see. 
This communicates to the feedback giver that we value their input and are open to changing. It also gives the feedback giver an opportunity to get practical about what exactly they are looking for from you.  
By thanking, asking clarifying questions, and asking what change they would like to see, you have successfully dug into the feedback. You’ve set in motion a productive, trust building response to feedback. Importantly – this is NOT the last step. If all we do is dig in, we haven’t closed the feedback loop. The next step is to do something. 
Doing. 
Translating employee feedback into behavior change puts your words into action. It signals to employees that their input matters. Don’t be the leader who only listens empathetically but doesn’t take action. Here’s three steps to putting feedback into action: 
Set a goal. 
You’ve received some feedback that points out a discrepancy in what you do and what you could do. Set a specific, measurable goal to respond to the feedback. 
Strive towards the goal. 
Once you’ve set the goal, strive for it! 
Follow up. This closes the feedback loop. Follow up with the feedback giver and ask how you’re doing. This will build a relationship of trust.  
When employees see leadership digging in and doing, their respect and trust is earned. They’re far more likely to respond to your feedback in the same way. Some leaders may think that digging in and doing might be seen as “weak.” The reality is the opposite! Strong leaders are the ones who are able to overcome their egos and respond to feedback by digging in and doing.  
If this approach to feedback begins at the top and is done in an open way that can be seen, embraced, and adopted by the entire company, then great things will happen. Etho™™ is designed to support your team on this undertaking. It gives you a place to track goals, record issues and feedback, and lets you come back to feedback from both sides so nothing is left to fester or be forgotten.   
- PEOPLE WANT GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
	The majority of employees leave their organizations because they lack growth and development.
Don’t create your company culture on bean bags and potlucks. Create your company culture by developing people and your competitor’s people will be very willing to jump ship and come join you. The majority of employees leave their organizations for growth and development.
A-players make moves very differently than B and C players. Let’s look at the exact reasons below.
Growth.
They are looking for a better growth trajectory. So, over the next 12-18 months, they want to know they will see a better growth trajectory than if they stay with their current employer
Stretch. 
At Day 1, A-players are looking for a bigger job than they’ve ever had before.
As you are attracting people to an organization, the big hook is not the job description. The hook is communicating how you are going to grow and develop the candidate. You need to communicate that in 12-18 months that person is going to be better off and more employable for you, but also for other opportunities. Read how you can realize the power of a career pathway.
Create a culture of growth and development of your team members so that not only do people want to join you, but your competitors want to steal your people. At Titus, we say “Fair game! If we are not treating them in a way that is honoring their skills, gifts and talents, and developing and rewarding them, you have every right to take them. If it’s better for them, go for it.” We want to know that we are the best place for our people and that we are growing them, investing in them, developing them, and rewarding them handsomely because they are helping our company hit its goals and objectives.
Impact. 
The last reason why A-players make career moves is for impact on the world around them.
We have a generation right now that is rising up and money is not number one. They want to know that their life counts. They want to know that their lives have meaning. If they are putting in 40-60 hours a week for your organization, they want to know that it has an impact on the world in a positive way. The work that they do needs to have impact in either the small world around them, the global world, or their personal world. Is your company having a positive impact on them: allowing them to travel less, giving them the ability to be more present with family, etc. There needs to be impact happening both ways.
Growth. Stretch. Impact. That’s why A-players make career moves. So, think about your current employees. Start with your A-players. Are you providing these 3 elements for them right now? Because if not, they are about to leave.
- ETHO™ IS HERE TO SIMPLIFY YOUR PROCESS.
	Matthew O’Neil poses a great question, “How do business leaders determine the measurement system for individual and group performance?
Historically, annual performance reviews are a common way companies have measured employee success. Can you really measure when its only done 1 or 2 times a year? If you cannot answer that confidently read how Performance Scoring will drive your employees’ performance through “in the moment” performance feedback and honing in on what could be hindering employee performance. 
Why Use Etho™?
CEO/Founder Anthony Piccolo understands the significance that performance management and engagement has for fostering organizational improvement. Etho™ provides live data 24/7 and identifies unique objective factors that drive success for top performers, areas of improvement, and overall employee success through realistic benchmarks. This application allows you to know what is going on in real time with your team or company.
The Lengthy Performance Review Meetings
Performance Scoring takes the prep and extended time out of these conversations. Having authentic data in real time that has been measuring an employee’s performance since day 1. We have created an advanced scorecard that empowers you to decide what you want to focus on! Our application has the ability to generate automated performance reports that you and the employee can look at together.
It gives percentage to completion metrics and creates space to focus on the achievement of objectives and company goals.
Etho™ Implements a Thoughtful and Intentional Performance Measurement Framework By Taking Note of the Details
When teams are new to a performance measurement framework, they need to have defined and clearly communicated goals across the organization. When yearly goals for the company are set, team management focuses on their objectives and professional performance goals before setting their teams. It is important to measure factors outside of their specific objectives as well. For example, taking note if a team member has created a better process or system on how to do something. Does a team member always go above and beyond stay past office hours to make sure their team shines. Sometimes these factors go unnoticed and you lose a very valuable employee because the feedback or help arrived too late. Performance Scoring helps you keep tabs through our customizable application.
Where Should I Start My Focus?
Always a big question, where to start. We always focus on these three things first. Customer, the product and services being offered but most importantly inward focus because if your team knows they are cared for they will give 110%. Leave a comment or like if you agree and share your thoughts! We all learn and grow together.
O’Neil, Mathtew. “Performance Measurement: Simplify Your Process With the Right Tools.” Performance Measurement: Simplify Your Process With the Right Tools | Promises at Work, Promises at Work, 19 Nov. 2018, www.samewave.com/posts/performance-measurement-simplify-your-process-with-the-right-tools.
- CAREER TRANSITION
	Advice from an EOS Visionary like You
If you find yourself in a period of transition, Titus Talent CEO and Visionary, Jonathan Reynolds, has some practical tips to help you navigate the change. Instead of focusing on the past and what you’ve done before, carve out time to clarify your vision – where you’re going, who you are, what you value. Here’s what Jonathan has implemented in his personal and professional life to keep things on track.
The Predictive Index, mentioned in the video, is not just an assessment, it’s part of a cultural philosophy that changes how companies think about talent. The Predictive Index measures both cognitive reasoning and the inherent motivating needs that drive all people. You can use this system to understand what contributes to workplace behaviors so you can ensure alignment, drive your team’s success, and achieve your business objectives faster than you ever thought possible.